---
layout: post
title: "Octopress 101"
date: 2017-07-25T22:45:07+03:00
author: 
tags: jekyll octopress ruby
---

I decided to develop my own blog like all the other cool developers.
If you got here, this is what I got so far, it's not too much, but it's mine.

When I develop something my rules are very simple

- Avoid writing any code
- Keep it simple
- Should be easy to deploy on free hosting environment
- Should have decent code syntax highlight

So I heard(mostly in www) people talking about jekyll as a static web site generator and began to dig dipper,
I searched a few ruby gems for blogging and found a gem called [octopress](https://github.com/octopress/octopress octopress v3).
They, the guys who developed it, calls it Jekyll's Ferrari, sounds good to me, looked pretty straight forward so I gave it a spin.

First thing you need to do it to create a new project for your blog (just a new folder)

{% highlight bash %}
mkdir my-blog
{% endhighlight %}

Next you should create a Gemfile for easy dependency management.

{% highlight bash %}
gem install bundler
bundle init
{% endhighlight %}

Now lets add octopress as a dependency, inside your Gemfile add

{% highlight ruby %}
gem 'octopress', '~> 3.0'
{% endhighlight %}

Now we should tell bundle to install gems from Gemfile, in terminal run

{% highlight ruby %}
bundle
{% endhighlight %}

Everything is set up, now according to [octopress](https://github.com/octopress/octopress octopress) all we need to do
is to run
{% highlight bash %}
octopress init <PATH>
{% endhighlight %}

and we have a blog ready.

Now you probably have a blog somewhere, mine is at [blogger](kinnrot.blogspot.com)

And I thought to my self it would be nice to import all my posts to the new blog, well it's super easy, jekyll has many importers
read more about it [here](https://import.jekyllrb.com/docs/home/ migrations)

So after 3 clicks and one script I got all my old posts on my new blog.

Whats next?
Well I need some theme, cause I can't design at all, I just know how to design code, when it comes to colors layout and fonts, I suck.

 I googled a bit and found [this](http://jekyllthemes.org/) and [that](https://github.com/planetjekyll/awesome-jekyll-themes) and chose to start simple
 with minima, which is minimal and simple to install and work with

you just need to add it to your Gemfile

{% highlight ruby %}
gem 'minima'
{% endhighlight %}

set the theme property in _config.yaml to minima and you are good to go, by running 'jekyll build' you'll be able to see your blog
site generated in the _site filder.

Now we just need to deploy it the easy way












